Good morning, and welcome to Improving
the Stability of Your Apps.
My name is Jim Turner,
and I'm an iOS binary
compatibility engineer.
And we're going to have a
conversation today about why we want
to have your apps be more stable.
Why do we have a presentation about this?
Well, we understand that your time
as a developer is incredibly
important and very short usually.
And we want you to be using that time to
Creating better features in your
applications or creating great new
applications and not spending so
much time fighting bugs or generally
fighting the iOS development ecosystem.
We want the applications and the code
that you write today to run really well,
not only on the devices we
ship now and in the future,
but on older devices and users that
are running older versions of iOS.
Now, we're not going to be able to
discuss absolutely everything
that you can do to increase the
stability of your application.
So for the next hour,
we're going to cover four things.
First, binary compatibility.
What is it and how do you ensure
that your app remains compatible?
Second, coding for tomorrow,
how to make good choices when you
use the API to ensure that your
app remains stable in the future.
Anticipating the user.
Thinking about some of the issues
that your users are going to encounter
when they use your application.
and finally, testing.
What to test, how to test,
and if you've never
created a test plan before,
we'll go over creating a real basic one.
So let's get started with
binary compatibility.
The term usually means
that an application,
if it's adhering to the rules of the API,
should not be negatively or
adversely affected when the operating
system that it runs on changes.
Now for your users, though,
this means something slightly different.
It means that while your application
is being updated and the user is
updating their version of iOS,
or maybe they're updating
their device hardware,
their experience should not be
negatively or adversely affected.
Now, my group is the Binary
Compatibility Group,
and what we do is we test binary
compatibility for you guys.
While we're creating new features in iOS,
we use your applications to see that
the changes we're making are not
breaking features that you expect.
So literally what we do is
we put your applications on--
The Next Great Thing.
And if you guys are
doing your part right,
it just works.
This is Carl.
He's in The Next Great Thing.
So what are some of the things that you
can actually do to ensure compatibility?
Well, one of the first things that most
developers have an issue with when
they first come to iOS is what
kind of device am I actually on?
Am I on an iPhone or an iPad?
So when I was developing
this presentation,
I went and searched the internet for
how do I know which device I'm on?
Yeah,
I'm going to show you the code I found.
And I want you to know
before I even show it to you,
this is not what we want you doing.
What you're seeing here is-- raise
your hand if you have this in your app.
How many of you-- what you're seeing
here is that someone's using syscontrol,
my name, and they're looking for
the hardware machine type.
And they're looking at the first seven
characters to see if it equals iPad 1,
1.
And if it matches, we're on an iPad,
right?
Not exactly.
And let me show you why
this is a really bad idea.
And remember,
the My Group likes to put your
applications on the next great thing.
Carl.
So we took some of your applications,
we put it on the iPad 2, comma, 1,
and this is what some of you guys did.
You rendered in one fourth
the size because you thought
you were on an iPhone.
This is what binary
compatibility doesn't look like.
So the issue here is that you need to
realize that you don't necessarily care
which kind of device you're actually on.
You care more about are you
on an iPhone-sized device
or an iPad-sized device?
And to that end,
we've made a function available,
UI user interface idiom,
that will tell you that information.
If you use this, you will always know,
and we will always be correctly knowing,
which device you're actually on.
So another thing that a lot of developers
want to do is use the great new features
that we throw into every version of iOS.
Lots of new and shiny stuff.
But you have users who aren't
going to be upgrading to iOS 5.
Or they can't.
Or they're running old hardware.
But you still want to support
them in the same application.
So take, for example, Core Image.
Our incredibly powerful
image manipulation framework
is now available in iOS 5.
And you want to use this framework,
but you still want to support your
users that are running 4.1 or 4.2.
How do you go about doing this?
Well, the answer is weak linking your
frameworks and checking for
class availability at runtime.
And this is a fairly simple process,
but it's two steps,
so some people get tripped up by it.
First, to do weak linking,
I'm going to show you a screenshot of
what Xcode looks like to do weak linking.
And here I have a project.
Here I have a project that has the
Core Image framework already linked,
already added into it.
And if you look right here,
I changed the required
pop-up to optional.
That's it.
At runtime, the linker now knows that if
Core Image is not available,
it just doesn't worry about it.
The problem though is that if you
still try to use a Core Image class,
your application is going to crash.
So to check for class availability,
you need to use NSObject's class method.
Here we're trying to see
if CI Image is available.
We send it the class method.
And if we get back a non-nil answer,
CI Image is available.
And this is safe going
forward and backwards.
Another issue users, developers,
excuse me, have a problem with,
we see it in binary compatibility a lot,
and developer technical
support sees it too,
is orientation.
And there's one specific problem that
seems to crop up over and over again,
and that is, how do you start your
application in landscape,
and how do you only support landscape?
This isn't a terribly
difficult problem to solve,
but a lot of people try stabbing at the
status bar first to make this happen,
and it's not the right answer.
You need to start off by editing
your project's Info.plist.
And the first key you're going to look
for is supported interface orientations.
Now, this is an array.
And in this array,
you're going to enter in each
orientation that you want
your application to support.
The second key you're looking for
is initial interface orientation,
and this is the orientation you want your
application to be initially launched in.
Now,
it's important that you actually make
the initial orientation interface
orientation match the first elements in
the supported interface orientations.
But once you do that,
your application should launch
in the correct orientation.
But we're going to ask your application
at runtime what orientations it supports,
so we need to go a little bit further
and edit some of your view controllers.
Now,
every view controller in your application
needs to know how to answer the question,
should auto rotate to
interface orientation,
especially the one designated
as your root view controller.
So continuing with our example,
if we pass in the interface
orientation parameter we give you to
UI interface orientation is landscape,
and if you return the answer,
your application now
does the right thing.
It'll launch in landscape,
and it will only rotate to landscape.
And finally, if you're an OpenGL user,
you should really check out GLKit.
It's a new framework in iOS 5.
It has a whole bunch of fun stuff in it,
but it also should help you
with some of the orientation
issues you might be having.
Finally,
there's some other features that you
can have your application configure that
have nothing to do with your source code.
Things like Wi-Fi needs to remain
active while my application is running,
or I want to share documents with my
application and with iTunes on the host.
Or I absolutely have to have a gyroscope.
My app doesn't work without it.
These are all done by editing
your project's Info.plist.
So going right back to it,
to support continuous Wi-Fi,
you add the key application uses Wi-Fi,
and set its value to a Boolean yes.
To do file sharing,
the key is application
supports iTunes file sharing,
and it's a Boolean value again.
And finally,
to restrict your application to
a specific device capability,
you need to add the key
required device capabilities.
And this is a dictionary.
And for each capability
you want to restrict on,
you add another Boolean
value for yes or no.
There's an important thing to note
about required device capabilities here.
And that is,
if you don't have a preference
about which capability,
like you don't really care if the
device has a Javascript or not,
don't set any value at all.
Because a value of no here
does not mean the same thing
as a value that doesn't exist.
There's quite a few other things
that you can actually do by
editing your project's Info.plist,
so I encourage you to check out the
documentation to see if any of the
other items apply to your application.
So with that,
I'd like to bring up Jake Behrens from
Developer Technical Support to talk about
coding your application for tomorrow.
Thanks, Jim.
So what if I told you that
I've been sent from the future
And in this future,
I've seen your app crash.
I've seen you overburdened
with stacks of crash logs.
And I've seen your app become
quite unstable and incompatible
with future software and hardware.
Over the next 25 minutes,
I'm going to show you some techniques and
some things to keep in mind so that you
can ensure that this future is destroyed
and will probably cease to exist.
So my name is Jake Behrens,
and I'm an engineer in
Developer Technical Support.
And I work with developers
like yourselves every day,
troubleshooting issues within
your code and applications.
And this is coding for tomorrow.
So I'm going to talk
about three things today.
First, custom functionality.
How do we implement custom
functionality properly in a
supported way so that you can get
assistance when something goes wrong?
Then I'm going to talk about some
things that you can do that take a
small amount of time but make a huge
impact on your project going forward.
And then finally,
we're going to cover crash reports.
How to make them more informational,
how to read them,
and how to get the most out of them so
that you can ensure that your application
updates are going to be compatible.
So let's start.
With custom functionality,
this is achieved typically by
extending existing classes that
we ship in our public frameworks.
But when you create this
custom functionality,
you want to make sure that
you're not only thinking about
the future of your software,
but the future of our software.
What's that user experience going to
look like when your user runs your
application for the first time on iOS 5?
Is it going to crash?
Is it going to hang?
And even further down the line,
when they run it on new hardware,
what's that experience going to be?
Maybe you haven't had time to issue
an update for the new hardware.
Is it going to be stable and compatible?
So really, this comes down to your users.
You want to ensure that they've got
the best possible user experience.
So let's look at an example.
Here I've got a list of products,
and maybe we want to customize
the UI navigation bar.
Here's a hint, it's the bar at the top.
You're in a meeting with a client or
your manager comes to you and they say,
you know, look,
the custom look and feel of iOS is great.
But this application is for our company.
And we really want to mesh
the branding with our company.
So couldn't we make it
a little more orange?
Well, yeah, you can.
But there are some
ways you could do this,
and I'm going to go through two ways
that you probably don't want to do this,
and then two ways that are
probably going to be a better way.
So how can we achieve this functionality?
Well, we could start with...
Maybe a category.
But a category can be dangerous in this.
So for those of you in the
audience new to Objective-C,
a category is a great way
to extend an existing class.
- So, I'm going to talk about
the implementation of the
StableTools application.
So, the StableTools application is a
very common application that you
don't have the implementation for.
But the issue here is that we've
implemented our own DrawRect,
and a lot of you may think, okay,
I'm overriding DrawRect,
but you're not overriding,
you're replacing DrawRect.
So,
any performance tuning that we've done
within the project is what you do,
and so you could run into issues here.
The other problem here is that, well,
since this is a category,
this applies to every instance of
UI navigation bar within your project.
So, every single bar is
going to look like this,
which may not be the exact
user experience you want.
So, what's another way we could do this?
Oh, and also, with categories,
since you've implemented
this via a category,
if the original implementation
was done with a category,
which one runs at runtime?
It's undefined.
So,
what's another way that we could do this?
Well, I've seen some people do this.
Yeah, this is really bad.
So not only have you,
what this is is method swizzling.
And so you're digging into the
classes method list and you're saying,
yeah, that method, yeah,
don't do your own implementation,
do mine.
I know what I'm doing, right?
So what this does is suddenly,
like within the category, well,
you've got it at runtime now,
but you've killed any performance
tuning that we did in ours.
And you have no way to get back
to the original implementation.
And really, at the end of the day,
this is just a big hack.
You really don't want this.
Because when you write
into me and you say,
hey, I've got this issue with my
UI navigation bar on the new OS,
I don't know.
It's just not being good.
It's just not being called or, you know,
it's just not working.
Well, I can't really help you because,
you know,
this is really not a good thing to do.
You're just hacking the system.
So you want to make sure that
you do it in a supported way.
So what does that look like?
Funny enough, a subclass.
So we can subclass UI navigation
bar and implement our draw rect.
And you'll notice here that I've
set up the image in init with coder.
So we won't run into the issue where,
you know, possibly we're having to
recreate the image when draw
rect gets called multiple times.
So now I know what you're saying.
You're saying, look, Jake.
I've read the documentation,
and I know that the navigation
bar property on UI Navigation
Controller is read-only.
So it's great that you
wrote this subclass,
but how do I actually implement this?
Well,
the secret here is by utilizing the nib.
So you can select the
UI navigation bar within your nib,
and then you can set the
class of that UI navigation
bar to your custom subclass.
So now, like I said,
you've got it only in specific
instances that you wanted.
So this is great.
So now going forward into the future,
it's even better.
In iOS 5,
we have the Appearance Proxy API.
So this is one line of code now,
totally supported.
No categories, no hacking,
no subclassing, it just works.
And so you can do this with
setBackgroundImage for bar metrics.
And I would also suggest that if
you didn't catch polishing your app
or customizing the appearance of
UIKit control sessions this week,
catch the repeats.
Polishing your app will be today,
and then customizing the appearance
of UIKit controls will be tomorrow.
Great sessions that dive a
little bit deeper into this.
[Transcript missing]
In this kind of situation,
if a certain framework is
very essential to the core
functionality of your application,
you want to make sure that you
at least take five minutes and
go through the headers for all
those classes in that framework.
Because in some specific instances,
there are additional insights.
You know,
a lot of this is in the class reference,
but every once in a while,
you get something with, well,
if it returns this value,
this is kind of the situation
that we were thinking of,
or, well, we kind of anticipated that
it would be used this way,
when maybe you're trying
to use it another way.
So this can kind of give you
a little bit more insight.
And now,
there's a great amount of awesome
code out there on the internet.
And man, before I came to Apple,
if a client was breathing down my neck,
it was awesome to be like, "Yeah,
I need that functionality.
Yes, that does it.
Okay, ship it.
Awesome!" Well, before you do that,
you should probably
read through the code.
Because in some cases,
if it's an older framework,
you could run into an issue
where they're calling a private
API and you didn't even know.
So then you get rejected and you're like,
"Oh, man,
I waited seven days and now I just
got to fix this." Another issue is
you don't want to add in a 5-meg
framework to do a photo gallery.
Or a thousand lines of code
to reimplement UI button
with some faux CSS styling.
So you really want to take
some ownership of this code.
Anything that ships within your
application is your responsibility.
When your users come back and say,
"It's crashing," you really can't say,
yeah, use this framework.
probably shouldn't use it,
so sorry about that.
They just know that the application
that they know and love and use
every day suddenly doesn't work
quite the way they intended it to.
And so you want to make sure
that you're analyzing the code,
you're profiling it,
you're putting it through all the ringers
that you would put your own code through.
So now you've made your
code more compatible,
you've made it more stable,
now you've got crash logs.
So I hate to be the
bearer of bad news here,
but your application's
probably going to crash.
My applications crashed
before I came to Apple.
Now they don't.
No, no, no, I'm just kidding.
They still crash.
So you've got all these crash logs.
Well, let's start at the beginning.
How did we prepare for
getting these crash logs?
Well, when you finally got the
build and you're like,
all right, I'm ready to go,
we're going to throw this out,
before you give it to your beta testers,
before you submit it to the app store,
do the build and archive
from within Xcode.
What this does is it sets aside,
it does that build and it sets
aside the binary and the DSIM file.
And what happens here is that the
binary is your application and the
DSIM is kind of like a mapping of
these addresses to these symbols.
Or your code.
And so get this, back it up,
co-locate that back up,
do everything possible to
make sure that you have that.
Because this is going to help
you make your crash log much
more informative going forward.
And we'll get to that in a moment.
So you've done your preparation.
Now, where do I find them?
Well,
you can get them off your test device
because I know you're not running the
newest seed on your personal device,
right?
Well, maybe.
So, get them off your test device.
You can also get them in
iTunes Connect when your
application is in there.
Also,
if you have a user contact you directly,
maybe they say, you know,
I've got your app,
it changed my life before I was lonely,
now I've got a kid, a dog, and kids,
it's great.
Well, you can point them to
this directory and say,
okay, pass me up these crash
logs and I'll take a look.
You can also read technical note
TN2151 on the reference library
to get the other directories
from the other operating systems.
So now you've got them,
and your user has emailed
you crash reports,
and you're like, "All right, let's go,
let's get this done."
And it looks like this.
I don't read hex.
But remember when we did the
build and archive before?
Well now we're gonna use that.
So what you can do is you can
take this crash log and you
can drop it into the device log
section of the organizer in Xcode.
And it goes, okay,
you did the build and archive,
so I've got the DSIM,
I've got the binary,
and now I can make this look like this.
So much more informative.
Now this is fully symbolicated.
And realize sometimes you might see them,
especially from app review
or maybe iTunes Connect,
where our code is symbolicated,
but your code isn't symbolicated.
So you wanna make sure that
you do this just to be sure.
And I'm gonna show you
how you can make sure.
So you've got this and you're like, okay,
well this is a lot of information,
so how do I kind of sift through this?
Well,
the first thing you wanna look at is
exception codes and exception types.
This is gonna give you kind of a general
idea of what you're dealing with.
And the more you read crash logs,
the more you're gonna say, oh, okay,
it's that kind of thing, okay,
I got that.
I know kind of where this is going.
Another thing to look at
is which thread crashed.
So in this example, it's thread zero.
And if you've ever heard, you know,
don't block the main thread,
that's thread zero.
So now we know which thread crashed,
and we can scroll down
and get to that thread.
So we're there.
No.
Since we're here,
we want to start looking
through the backtrace.
So you want to follow down the
backtrace until you get to the
first instance of your application.
So you can see here at frame 10,
on the left-hand side is my application.
And on the right-hand side,
it's mapped the addresses to symbols.
And so it says, okay,
in my application view
controller's viewed load method,
something happened.
And it even has more information for you,
which is in the implementation file,
it was at line 36.
So, great, now you know almost right
where things went wrong.
You know what line of code was last
executed before everything went south,
but we can still gain a little
bit more insight if we start
following up the backtrace.
So, on frame 9,
you'll see objected index was
called on an immutable NSArray.
That's what the I after
the NSArray stands for.
And so, okay, now we're at line 36,
objected index, NSArray,
we've got a lot more info,
and then at frame 8,
you can see the exception was thrown.
So, alright, let's look at the code.
So if we go to Xcode,
we're in my application view
controller's view to load method,
and we look at line 36.
Ugh, I'm so embarrassed.
So what I did was I created
an NSArray with nil values,
and then I'm calling
object at index zero,
which doesn't exist.
So it crashed.
There's another potential crash
that could have happened here,
which is I released it and
then I was calling it again,
which is a problem.
So I could have hit that,
but since this was all I was doing,
the memory hadn't been overwritten yet.
And then I wasn't even
setting it to anything.
So yeah, I just really didn't.
I must have been sleeping.
So now I know exactly where
I needed to fix my code from
looking at the crash report.
I was able to symbolicate it.
I was able to find out
exactly what needed to happen
and what the problem was.
So as we're reading through,
there are some common
exceptions that we can find.
So on Mac and iOS, you can see exe crash,
which was our example.
And this is kind of your
standard crash exception.
Hey, something in the logic
went a little weird,
so something happened.
An exe bad access usually refers
to some memory mismanagement.
Something happened there.
And then on iOS specifically,
we have ate bad food,
which means that the watchdog
timer killed your application.
Maybe it didn't launch in time,
or maybe it didn't terminate in time.
And then we also have deadfall,
which means that it just was so
unresponsive that the user had
to force quit the application.
So, these exceptions are great,
but how do we kind of avoid these?
Well, here's some quick tips.
On exe crash, like I said,
these are usually logic issues.
So, follow back through and see,
you know, where something went wrong.
In my case, I was setting an array to
nil and then trying to call
an index that didn't exist.
With exe bad access,
make sure your ownership is in place if
you're manually managing your memory.
So,
you can basically remember this as narc.
If you're calling new, alloc, retain,
or copy, you own that now.
So, you need to dispose of it properly.
But going forward, I would really,
really suggest that you check out
our automatic reference counting,
which our teams have
done an amazing job on.
And this will help you.
Get past these trivial
memory management issues.
Another thing to look
at is thread access.
So, you know, in my example,
we looked at thread zero had crashed.
Well, if we've done a multi-threaded
application and we see a
crash on another thread,
that may clue us in as to, oh, okay,
maybe I should check out some
of my threading code because
I create one here and this is the
kind of issue that has happened.
And you also want to make
sure that you're not,
you know, trying to mutate an array.
On one thread while you're
trying to release it on another.
That can lead to sadness.
So, then with ate bad food,
I've seen some over-eager
developers who are like,
wow, main window is awesome.
I'm just going to put all my
view controllers in there.
And I'm going to put all
my resources in there.
Well, the problem here is that that's
loaded when your application launches.
And so,
all of those objects are being loaded.
And it just makes sense.
It may take a really long time.
So, what the watchdog does is it
stands by to the side and it says,
okay, we're loading an application.
We're loading.
Yeah, we're still loading.
What is he doing?
No, kill it.
Just kill it.
And we do.
Another thing here is to watch all the
initialization code that you're doing in
applicationDidFinishLaunchingWithOptions.
You want to try and return from
this method as quickly as possible
so that your application is
responsive and the system knows that,
okay, the application's up.
We're doing stuff.
We're going.
If you have initialization code in here,
make sure you're not doing
things like initWithURL.
Maybe you're trying to ping a
server and it's just not responding
and it's just sitting there.
Well, the watchdog timer is going
to come along and say,
"Nah, we're not waiting on that anymore,"
and it's going to dump your app.
So,
The things to take away is that you
can change this future that I am from.
You can correct your clever code.
And for those of you who are new, well,
when you see this clever code,
there's usually a better way.
And for those of you who are
veterans in the audience,
I know you guys wouldn't
put a code like that in,
right?
Right?
Maybe.
So you want to check out if
there's a better way to do these.
And then make sure that
you're taking ownership.
Everything that ships within
your application is yours.
It's your responsibility.
If you're pulling in static libraries,
you want to make sure that you either
have access to that source or you
have a support channel so that you
can say when you get a crash log back
and a crash is happening in there,
you can try and resolve
that as quickly as possible.
And then finally,
if you do incur a crash,
knowing your crash reports and
knowing how to symbolicate those,
how to prepare for these, you know,
issues is really, really important.
I mean, this is how you're going to
issue the next update of your
application for your users.
And you want to make sure that you
can do that quickly and effectively.
So with that, thank you.
And I'm going to pass back off to Jim.
Thank you, future Jake.
Did you leave the lottery
numbers up here for next week?
No.
So let's talk about you taking a step
back out of your role as a developer
and putting yourself into the role
of your users for a little while and
thinking about some of the issues
that they're going to encounter
while they use your application.
Specifically, four things here.
The first is upgrades
to your application.
Not only to your application, actually,
but to the device and to the
operating system as well.
Second, the network.
The network has a mind of its own.
Some people think it looks
like this green thing.
We need to help the user understand
what's going wrong when the
network doesn't cooperate.
Third, targeting devices.
How to ensure that the user experiences
exactly what you intended them to.
And finally, knowing your customers.
Thinking about the properties of the
user themselves and not just basically
what features they would like to see.
Now, upgrades to your application are
normally a very benign process.
The user goes to the store,
they download it to the device,
they launch it, and it works just fine.
It's during this relaunch process that
your application needs to be mindful of
upgrading the data that it created on
behalf of the user that it still manages.
And specifically, there's three areas.
User defaults.
If you're saving a lot of
user data in preferences,
which is fine,
you need to make sure that the
keys that you were using before are
still supported in the next version.
And if they're not,
or for some reason you can't use them,
that they need to be
upgraded or migrated.
You don't want your user to have
to reconfigure your application
every time they upgrade it.
Second is Core Data.
Core Data is our persistence framework,
and honestly, it expects to be upgraded.
And to that end,
it works very hard to make
what could be a very painful
process as painless as possible.
Usually, if your data models aren't
very complicated or you don't
have a lot of significant
changes from version to version,
providing the data models from
each version of your application
is enough for us to infer a
migration map on your behalf,
and we'll just do the migration for you.
However, if you have a really
complicated data model,
or you've made a large number of
changes from one version to the next,
you can still do the upgrade,
but it's going to be more on you.
You're going to have to
provide your own migration map.
You may actually have to interact with
an NS Migration Manager a little bit,
but it's totally possible to do
really complicated migrations.
We mentioned this because, unfortunately,
a lot of developers now seem to
think the route that forcing their
users to upgrade the application
or reinstall the application is
the preferred method to upgrade it.
This is a really bad user experience,
and it makes the users lose all the
data they have created beforehand.
And finally, the third thing,
custom databases.
If you're using SQLite directly,
maybe you have a XML store
or a flat text file even,
or maybe your company has a
proprietary binary format database,
ensure that those get upgraded as well.
Upgrades on the devices and
for the operating system,
again, your applications probably
don't necessarily care
when the device upgrades.
Again,
you'll get relaunched and you'll be fine.
But if you think about it,
your application could actually be
shut down on an original iPhone running
iOS 3.1.3 and through the restore
process be brought back up on an iOS
5 device or iPhone 4 running iOS 5.
That is a huge difference
in functionality from
not only just the device,
what the device can do,
and what the OS can actually do.
So your application finds itself in
a very strange but brand new world.
The environment is totally different.
And this becomes important for you
guys when you're restoring your
application's last known state.
Now, state saving is something that
you're doing as necessary and
every time that we're calling
application did enter background.
And it's the information
that you need to know.
To bring your application
back up to the same reasonable
point that the user left it in.
But if you're saving transient data,
information like about which networks
are available or what type of network
the user was last on or URL resources
that may or may not be there anymore.
You need to verify that this information
is still saying when you relaunch.
Sometimes we see it that you
just blindly restore the state.
It's totally wrong and
the application crashes.
A final note about
upgrades to the devices,
new devices out of the
box have no content.
If your application is expecting
address book records and you
start blindly indexing into them,
what actually happens?
Be prepared to handle the state
where there are no records or no
content available to your application.
The network.
The network, like I said,
it has a mind of its own.
And it usually chooses to foist
its anger upon your customer at the
exact point in time that they really
need to get the data that's in it.
And what we advise is that
you hope for the best here,
but you really need to expect the worst.
And when you're in that
absolute worst case scenario,
you need to handle errors as
gracefully as you possibly can.
Now, the error handlers in our
protocols are optional,
or usually marked as optional,
but they're really not.
It's the last chance that you have to
undo any network state or clean up any
problems that you may have encountered
during your network transmission.
So, the error handlers are optional,
or usually marked as optional,
but they're really not.
It's the last chance that you have to
undo any network state or clean up any
problems that you may have encountered
during your network transmission.
Something we suggest that
you do before you even send
your network request though,
is to test for reachability.
Reachability is the knowledge to
know if your request is actually
going to leave the physical device
before you even make it and in
which network it's going to take.
Is it going to be on Wi-Fi or
is it going to be on cellular?
We have some great sample code that shows
you how to use the Reachability API,
but there are two things that
you need to remember about it.
Is that the first,
it does not indicate availability.
Just because we say that your
request is going to leave the device,
doesn't mean it's actually
going to get anywhere.
If your server's not up and
running and providing data,
it's still not gonna work.
Second is that domain name, excuse me,
that reachability requires
domain name resolution.
And DNS is not exactly the
fastest thing on the planet.
So the first time you make
a request to reachability,
it's probably going to
give you the answer of,
I don't know.
You need to wait until we call you back
with the real state of reachability
before you decide how to proceed.
And finally, disabling UI that's bound
to a network function.
This is fine,
but you want to be very careful
about how you go about doing it.
A lot of times,
we'll see an application start up,
and it immediately blitz this
loading view on top of all of its UI.
And reachability fails,
or the network isn't present,
or some other transient error happens.
And now I'm stuck with an
application that's a loading screen.
Disabling UI, just do it for the controls
and components that are
bound to the network itself.
And let the user try to use as much
of your application as they can
that doesn't require the network.
Targeting devices.
Users do not buy simulators, guys.
They buy devices.
They buy iPhones.
They buy iPads.
I looked for a guy holding
his laptop to his ear.
I could not find an image of it.
If you're not testing your application,
if you're not building your application
for a physical device and you're
only testing in the simulator,
this is a real problem.
The simulator does not emulate the
actual experience that the user is
going to encounter when they run your
application on their actual device.
There is no substitute for testing
and developing on real hardware.
But while you're developing
for the current hardware and
the current version of iOS,
we want you to understand that
there are users that are not
going to be able to upgrade with
you for one reason or another.
So while you're developing
for the new hotness,
we want you to have a plan in
place to figure out how to handle
those users that are going to
be not coming along for the ride.
As the gap between the oldest version of
iOS that you're going to support widens
from the version that you're targeting,
it becomes increasingly difficult
to satisfy both of these ends.
And eventually what's going to happen
is that the end that has the most
of your customers is going to start
going to have a degraded performance
because you're still trying to
support this end of the long tail
where there's only a few users left.
You need to take a hard look at your
application when you get in this
situation and see if these users over
here really are still worth supporting.
Now, I'm not telling you you should go
and dump all your old customers.
That's not what I'm saying.
But what I'm saying is if you're going
to develop an application that targets
older devices and older versions of iOS,
you need to key specifically on
responsiveness when you come to this.
When you're thinking about features,
if that feature works awesome
on an iPhone 4 but runs for junk
on an iPhone 3G or an iPhone.
You need to make sure that they get
the same experience as if you were
actually developing that application for
them and not just as an afterthought.
If you can't do that,
consider dropping features or maybe
toning them back a little bit so they get
a really good user experience as well.
Finally, knowing your customer.
And this is more than just knowing
which device they're on or which
features they're asking for.
It's realizing that some users,
they're not as technically
savvy as everyone in this room.
Kind of like my father-in-law.
Or maybe they don't
speak the same language.
Maybe like your father-in-law
or my wife some days.
You need to think about these things.
Things that have nothing
really to do with the technical
aspect of your application,
but they still are a part
of application development.
And specifically,
there is one thing that you can
actually do and implement in your
application that will actually pay you
a dividend the more you actually add it.
And that is accessibility.
Accessibility is enabling your
application to be usable by those with
special needs or physical disabilities.
And I'll tell you that we are incredibly
proud of how accessible iOS has become.
I mean, if you think about it,
we make a device that literally is
two pieces of glass and three buttons.
And yet people who have never
seen the thing can actually
still use it every single day.
I mean, even future Jake and his future
whatever iPhone that he has still
has to think that's pretty cool.
We give you the power to
enable your application to be
just as assistive as iOS is.
If you're using standard UI kit controls,
you get most of this for free.
When the UI becomes a little ambiguous,
you can help us with some hints.
But for the most part, it just works.
Now, if you're providing an entirely
custom view and custom controls,
you need to support the
UI accessibility protocols.
Now, what's the payoff for this?
Why, besides other having more
customers for your application,
The payoff here is that the more
accessible you make your application,
the more automatable it becomes.
The automation system that
we have in iOS is completely
dependent upon accessibility.
So the more accessible you are,
the more automatable you become and
the more easy it is to test your UI.
There is a great talk on
accessibility going on right
now about 20 yards that way.
I would highly recommend that
you check it out on the videos.
They have done fantastic things
with accessibility in iOS.
Now we're at the part of the talk
where you're probably sitting in the
audience and you're thinking that,
oh my god,
I had that iPad 1.1 check in there.
I should probably get rid of that.
And you listened to what Jake had
to say and you probably have all
these crash reports that you probably
should go and gather up and actually
fix what's actually happening.
And you maybe think, well, actually,
accessibility would be kind
of cool to add to my app.
So you go home,
and you bundle up an update,
and you put it off to the store,
and we approve it.
And you get to see those three
words that everyone loves to see,
right?
Ready for sale.
Woo-hoo!
Right?
It's a party.
You guys actually let go of balloons,
right?
Users start downloading your update,
they start posting reviews,
and you start seeing these reviews, like,
"Oh, this app was awesome.
Now with the update,
it doesn't work anymore." Okay,
that's not good.
Oh, here we go.
I love this app, but since I updated it,
it won't start.
It keeps crashing.
Well, that doesn't happen for
me in the simulator.
Okay.
Oh, great.
"Every update makes this game worse.
They want their money back." Fabulous.
It can't get any worse, right?
That's nice.
OK, great.
I'm not even quite sure what this
actually-- I think it means I need
to make a salad with eggplants.
I have no idea.
It's not usable.
It's not useful.
How did we get to this point?
If you've done everything we've told
you to do up to what we said so far,
what happened here?
What component did we miss that makes
your application stand the best chance
of being truly stable and a really
great experience for your users?
And we'll get you reviews that
will instead look like this.
A component is testing.
Every application you ship
that you deliver to the
App Store needs to be tested.
I don't care if it has a single
button and makes fart noises,
or it has a million buttons and connects
to every social network on the planet.
It needs to be tested.
Why does it need to be tested?
Because you don't want to see
reviews that have eggplants in them,
for one.
But if you ship bugs,
that means you have to fix them.
Your users are going to find them,
and they're going to submit bug reports,
and they're going to demand
that you fix this stuff.
So you're fixing bugs instead of
adding features to your application.
Most importantly,
testing finds regressions.
Regressions are changes to your code
that break existing functionality.
This is something internally
that we focus on a lot.
When we make a change,
we want to know that we haven't
broken something that already exists.
So you may be saying, testing is hard.
I don't want to do testing.
Well, I understand that.
Testing can be a little difficult,
but a little bit goes a long ways.
And if you've never
actually done testing,
if you've never really
tested your application,
you may have no idea where to even start.
So let's walk through a
very simple test plan,
but it should give you some ideas of
how you can go about getting started
with testing your application.
First off, you start with the tools.
Maybe.
And the first tool that we're
gonna start off with is Xcode.
It's the tool that you
guys all know already.
And not only does Xcode
run your unit tests,
which,
You're all running unit tests, right?
It runs the Static Analyzer.
And we've talked a lot about
the Static Analyzer this week.
And if you haven't been
in any of the sessions,
it's basically a tool that
will walk through every single
code path in your application,
and it finds things that the
compiler just isn't gonna see.
Strange return values, dead code stores,
things that are dependent on
branches in your application.
It's a fabulous tool that you
should run early and often,
but you also need to
understand that when the,
the analyzer will return a
certain number of errors,
and if you get like 20 of them,
fix just the first one
and rerun it again.
It has kind of a cascade effect,
that you'll find that if
you fix one and rerun it,
a lot of the other errors
will most likely go away.
Second is Instruments.
Now,
Instruments really is about the biggest
gun that you have in your arsenal to
shipping a really great application.
It does dozens of different things.
But for the sake of this test plan,
we're only going to
discuss three of them.
And the first one is allocations.
Allocations analyzes the memory
lifecycle of blocks in your code.
Basically,
it watches as objects come and go.
But allocations usually
isn't run by itself.
It's ran with leaks,
which checks for memory,
abandoned memory in the heap.
Allocations analyzes the memory
lifecycle of blocks in your code.
Basically,
it watches as objects come and go.
But allocations usually
isn't run by itself.
It's ran with leaks,
which checks for memory,
abandoned memory in the heap.
And finally, it's Time Profiler.
Time Profiler is a great tool to
let you see what your application is
doing while it's actually doing it.
And so your application
becomes slow or unresponsive,
if you fire it up in Time Profiler,
you can see where those cycles are going.
The next component is automation.
And like I mentioned before,
automation is our ability to simulate
user input into your application,
either via an actual
device or on the simulator.
And it allows you to do basic
UI interaction and UI regression testing.
If you have a really complicated
navigation controller layout and
you are meant to make changes to it,
if you record an automation
first through it,
you can make sure that changes to it
aren't going to break how it works.
Automation is part of Instruments,
and it's part of the Automation plugin.
And both of these have actually
received feature upgrades for iOS 5.
And starting with Automation,
we can now record scripts for you.
And this is really nice because
previously you've had to--
Everyone clapping in here realizes
before you've had to type all this
stuff in by hand and try to figure
out where you're at in the hierarchy.
Now you just plug in a device
and tap out where you want to go
and we'll figure it out for you.
Second is the instrument supports
a command line interface.
Meaning that you can run any saved trace,
or that doesn't even
need to be automation,
and you can integrate it with any
existing shell scripts or any existing
automation or build plans that you have.
There was a great talk on
what's new in automation,
if I can click the button.
That was yesterday in Marina.
Check it out on the videos.
They did some awesome
stuff with iOS 5 as well.
[Transcript missing]
With the iPhone,
it's the same exact test,
but I want you to stay
on the cellular network.
And again,
you do this because you want to see
how your application responds to being
on an entirely different network.
Once you've got these tests complete,
you can actually be reasonably assured
that your new application runs well on
the old version of iOS that you support.
You may still have issues,
but for the most part,
you've got it covered.
Now, moving on to the next version,
the current version of iOS,
what I want you to do is
install the oldest version of
your application that you can.
Now, this may not actually be possible,
because sometimes it just won't go.
But a new feature in Xcode with 4.2
is that you can actually save off the
application's sandbox and then restore it
onto a device to perform this very test,
and that test is to
upgrade your application.
So if you have an old
device learning 4.1,
you can plug in into Xcode,
pull off the sandbox,
and stick it on the iOS 5 device,
and then you can perform your upgrade.
And you're upgrading to see
if core data gets upgraded,
your user defaults stay the same.
And then the test from
there is exactly the same.
You're going somewhere else.
you're testing on Wi-Fi.
Test like a user.
And as you can guess, wash, rinse,
and repeat with the iPhone,
it's the same exact test.
And like I said in the beginning,
this isn't really all that much,
but it tests a lot of
functionality in your application.
Functionality that your users,
that's the first thing
they're going to see.
They're going to use your
application in the coffee shop,
or they're going to use it
traveling down the interstate.
So doing these tests gives you a
reasonably good assumption of what
the user is going to see in your app,
and will find all those
bugs before they do.
So wrapping up here today,
what's the things we talked about?
We talked about not caring so
much about which device you're on,
but querying the API to know
what you should be doing with
what OS that you're running on.
Jake talked about making good choices
with the API that you're using,
and that when the machines take over in
the future and enslave all of humanity,
your app still runs pretty well.
Stepping back out of your role as a
developer and stepping into the role
as a user and trying to think of the
issues that they're going to encounter,
because you guys are users too.
And you really should be
making applications that are
really great for yourselves.
And finally, testing.
Test plans aren't incredibly sexy,
but they are a required part of
application development and really
are the best bet to getting really
great reviews and providing a
really great user experience.
I'd like to thank you guys for your time.
If you need to talk about us anymore,
send Bill an email or
read the documentation.
Or if you have any questions,
come up here and ask us,
and we'd be happy to help you out.